In this lesson, you're going to retrieve a student from your database.
So right now I've got two rows inside of my table.
If I want to retrieve the row that has an ID equal to one inside the primary key column, then what
I'm going to do is say select all from the student table where the ID equals one and press run.
And it retrieves the student that has an ID of one, a unique ID of one.
Now, once again, we're not here to write any SQL statements instead of writing all of this, what
I can do is go back into my code and inside of this method, say student repository, dot find by ID,
find the record inside of our table that has this unique ID get.
All right.
And now inside of my rest controller, there is a handler method that intercepts a get request that
is made on slash student with a path variable of ID.
So whatever ID that gets passed in, we're going to use that to access a specific resource from our
database.
So student service dot find.
For some reason, autocomplete is not working.
Oh, it's get student student serviced, get student by whatever ID that gets passed in.
All right.
And because we made changes to our code, our app reran, which means our data store was reset.
So let's go back and make some post requests.
I'm going to create a new student called her Mini.
Create a new student called Harry Potter.
We'll just change the year.
Press send going back over here.
It's going to prompt me to reconnect because they reset.
All right.
Here we can see we've got our two records.
If I go back here and I try to grab the student that has an ID of one.
It sends back Hermione Granger.
The student repository is able to successfully find the student that has this particular ID.
It returns that student in the form of a Java object.
And inside of our response, we're serializing that object into JSON before sending it back to the consumer.
And that's all.
Once again, using pure Java, we're able to talk to the database from the repository.
Our Java code is intercepted by an object relational layer before being translated to the correct query.
So let's try grabbing a row with an ID of two now.
Once again, we get a successful response.
We get back Harry Potter.
In this lesson, you retrieved rows from the student table.
First we retrieved a specific grow from our table using plain old SQL, but we're not here to write
SQL statements courtesy of Spring GPUs CRUD repository.
We can interact with our database using pure Java.
All we had to say was fine by ID and it was able to retrieve the student with the correct ID.